README.md, before:

# Poet Assistant Server

This server contains a read-only embedded database with dictionaries for rhymes, synonyms/antonyms and definitions.

It provides REST endpoints to look up the dictionary entries for a word.

The following REST endpoints are provided:

|Feature|Endpoint|
|---|---|
|Rhymes|`/rhymes?word=<word>`|
|Thesaurus|`/thesaurus?word=<word>`|
|Definitions|`/definitions?word=<word>`|
|Words of the day|`/wotd?before=<yyyy-MM-dd>&size=<page size>`<br>`before`: inclusive, defaults to today<br>`size`: defaults to 1|

## How to use it
Start the application:
```shell
./gradlew bootRun
```

### Rhymes
```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/rhymes?word=<word>"
````

For example, to find rhymes of the word "dove":
```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/rhymes?word=dove"

[{"variant_number":0,"stress_rhymes":{"syllables":"AHV","rhymes":["above","belove","deneuve","glove","gov","labov","labove","love","o'glove","of","shove","thereof","vanhove"]}},{"variant_number":1,"stress_rhymes":{"syllables":"OWV","rhymes":["boeve","bove","cove","drove","gove","grove","hove","labauve","nov","rove","soave","stove","strove","throve","tov","trove","wove"]}}]
```

This response example in pretty print:
```json
[
  {
    "variant_number": 0,
    "stress_rhymes": {
      "syllables": "AHV",
      "rhymes": [
        "above",
        "belove",
        "deneuve",
        "glove",
        "gov",
        "labov",
        "labove",
        "love",
        "o'glove",
        "of",
        "shove",
        "thereof",
        "vanhove"
      ]
    }
  },
  {
    "variant_number": 1,
    "stress_rhymes": {
      "syllables": "OWV",
      "rhymes": [
        "boeve",
        "bove",
        "cove",
        "drove",
        "gove",
        "grove",
        "hove",
        "labauve",
        "nov",
        "rove",
        "soave",
        "stove",
        "strove",
        "throve",
        "tov",
        "trove",
        "wove"
      ]
    }
  }
]
```

### Thesaurus
```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/thesaurus?word=<word>"
```

For example, to find thesaurus entries of the word "happy":
```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/thesaurus?word=happy"

[{"part_of_speech":"ADJ","synonyms":["blessed","blissful","bright","cheerful","content","contented","elated","euphoric","felicitous","glad","golden","halcyon","joyful","joyous","laughing","prosperous","riant"],"antonyms":["unhappy"]},{"part_of_speech":"ADJ","synonyms":["felicitous","fortunate"],"antonyms":[]},{"part_of_speech":"ADJ","synonyms":["glad","willing"],"antonyms":[]},{"part_of_speech":"ADJ","synonyms":["felicitous","well-chosen"],"antonyms":[]}]%
```

This response example in pretty print:
```json
[
  {
    "part_of_speech": "ADJ",
    "synonyms": [
      "blessed",
      "blissful",
      "bright",
      "cheerful",
      "content",
      "contented",
      "elated",
      "euphoric",
      "felicitous",
      "glad",
      "golden",
      "halcyon",
      "joyful",
      "joyous",
      "laughing",
      "prosperous",
      "riant"
    ],
    "antonyms": [
      "unhappy"
    ]
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "ADJ",
    "synonyms": [
      "felicitous",
      "fortunate"
    ],
    "antonyms": []
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "ADJ",
    "synonyms": [
      "glad",
      "willing"
    ],
    "antonyms": []
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "ADJ",
    "synonyms": [
      "felicitous",
      "well-chosen"
    ],
    "antonyms": []
  }
]
```

### Definitions

```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/definitions?word=<word>"
```

For example, to find definitions of the word "happy":

```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/definitions?word=happy"
[{"part_of_speech":"a","definition":"eagerly disposed to act or to be of service"},{"part_of_speech":"a","definition":"enjoying or showing or marked by joy or pleasure"},{"part_of_speech":"a","definition":"marked by good fortune"},{"part_of_speech":"a","definition":"well expressed and to the point"}]  
```

This response example in pretty print:
```json
[
  {
    "part_of_speech": "a",
    "definition": "eagerly disposed to act or to be of service"
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "a",
    "definition": "enjoying or showing or marked by joy or pleasure"
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "a",
    "definition": "marked by good fortune"
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "a",
    "definition": "well expressed and to the point"
  }
]
```
### Words of the day

```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/wotd?before=yyyy-MM-dd&size=<page size>"
```

To find to word of the day for today:
```shell
curl -i "http://localhost:8080/wotd" 
```

```json
[{"date":"2021-11-28","word":"clothesline"}]
```

To find the word of the day for last week of 2021:
```shell
curl -i "http://localhost:8080/wotd?before=2021-12-31&size=7"
```

```json
[{"date":"2021-12-31","word":"raindrop"},{"date":"2021-12-30","word":"ceaselessly"},{"date":"2021-12-29","word":"foresail"},{"date":"2021-12-28","word":"haematopoietic"},{"date":"2021-12-27","word":"crosier"},{"date":"2021-12-26","word":"demo"},{"date":"2021-12-25","word":"ceaselessly"}
```

This response example in pretty print:
```json
[
  {
    "date": "2021-12-31",
    "word": "raindrop"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-30",
    "word": "ceaselessly"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-29",
    "word": "foresail"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-28",
    "word": "haematopoietic"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-27",
    "word": "crosier"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-26",
    "word": "demo"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-25",
    "word": "ceaselessly"
  }
]
```

Commit message:

Update the README with some clarifications for the wotd pagination

README.md, after:

# Poet Assistant Server

This server contains a read-only embedded database with dictionaries for rhymes, synonyms/antonyms and definitions.

It provides REST endpoints to look up the dictionary entries for a word.

The following REST endpoints are provided:

|Feature|Endpoint|
|---|---|
|Rhymes|`/rhymes?word=<word>`|
|Thesaurus|`/thesaurus?word=<word>`|
|Definitions|`/definitions?word=<word>`|
|Words of the day|`/wotd?before=<yyyy-MM-dd>&size=<page size>`<br>`before`: inclusive, defaults to today<br>`size`: defaults to 1|

## How to use it
Start the application:
```shell
./gradlew bootRun
```

### Rhymes
```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/rhymes?word=<word>"
````

For example, to find rhymes of the word "dove":
```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/rhymes?word=dove"

[{"variant_number":0,"stress_rhymes":{"syllables":"AHV","rhymes":["above","belove","deneuve","glove","gov","labov","labove","love","o'glove","of","shove","thereof","vanhove"]}},{"variant_number":1,"stress_rhymes":{"syllables":"OWV","rhymes":["boeve","bove","cove","drove","gove","grove","hove","labauve","nov","rove","soave","stove","strove","throve","tov","trove","wove"]}}]
```

This response example in pretty print:
```json
[
  {
    "variant_number": 0,
    "stress_rhymes": {
      "syllables": "AHV",
      "rhymes": [
        "above",
        "belove",
        "deneuve",
        "glove",
        "gov",
        "labov",
        "labove",
        "love",
        "o'glove",
        "of",
        "shove",
        "thereof",
        "vanhove"
      ]
    }
  },
  {
    "variant_number": 1,
    "stress_rhymes": {
      "syllables": "OWV",
      "rhymes": [
        "boeve",
        "bove",
        "cove",
        "drove",
        "gove",
        "grove",
        "hove",
        "labauve",
        "nov",
        "rove",
        "soave",
        "stove",
        "strove",
        "throve",
        "tov",
        "trove",
        "wove"
      ]
    }
  }
]
```

### Thesaurus
```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/thesaurus?word=<word>"
```

For example, to find thesaurus entries of the word "happy":
```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/thesaurus?word=happy"

[{"part_of_speech":"ADJ","synonyms":["blessed","blissful","bright","cheerful","content","contented","elated","euphoric","felicitous","glad","golden","halcyon","joyful","joyous","laughing","prosperous","riant"],"antonyms":["unhappy"]},{"part_of_speech":"ADJ","synonyms":["felicitous","fortunate"],"antonyms":[]},{"part_of_speech":"ADJ","synonyms":["glad","willing"],"antonyms":[]},{"part_of_speech":"ADJ","synonyms":["felicitous","well-chosen"],"antonyms":[]}]%
```

This response example in pretty print:
```json
[
  {
    "part_of_speech": "ADJ",
    "synonyms": [
      "blessed",
      "blissful",
      "bright",
      "cheerful",
      "content",
      "contented",
      "elated",
      "euphoric",
      "felicitous",
      "glad",
      "golden",
      "halcyon",
      "joyful",
      "joyous",
      "laughing",
      "prosperous",
      "riant"
    ],
    "antonyms": [
      "unhappy"
    ]
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "ADJ",
    "synonyms": [
      "felicitous",
      "fortunate"
    ],
    "antonyms": []
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "ADJ",
    "synonyms": [
      "glad",
      "willing"
    ],
    "antonyms": []
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "ADJ",
    "synonyms": [
      "felicitous",
      "well-chosen"
    ],
    "antonyms": []
  }
]
```

### Definitions

```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/definitions?word=<word>"
```

For example, to find definitions of the word "happy":

```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/definitions?word=happy"
[{"part_of_speech":"a","definition":"eagerly disposed to act or to be of service"},{"part_of_speech":"a","definition":"enjoying or showing or marked by joy or pleasure"},{"part_of_speech":"a","definition":"marked by good fortune"},{"part_of_speech":"a","definition":"well expressed and to the point"}]  
```

This response example in pretty print:
```json
[
  {
    "part_of_speech": "a",
    "definition": "eagerly disposed to act or to be of service"
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "a",
    "definition": "enjoying or showing or marked by joy or pleasure"
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "a",
    "definition": "marked by good fortune"
  },
  {
    "part_of_speech": "a",
    "definition": "well expressed and to the point"
  }
]
```
### Words of the day

```shell
curl "http://localhost:8080/wotd?before=yyyy-MM-dd&size=<page size>"
```

To find to word of the day for today:
```shell
curl -i "http://localhost:8080/wotd" 
```

```json
[{"date":"2021-11-28","word":"clothesline"}]
```

To find the word of the day for last week of 2021:
```shell
curl -i "http://localhost:8080/wotd?before=2021-12-31&size=7"
```

```json
[{"date":"2021-12-31","word":"raindrop"},{"date":"2021-12-30","word":"ceaselessly"},{"date":"2021-12-29","word":"foresail"},{"date":"2021-12-28","word":"haematopoietic"},{"date":"2021-12-27","word":"crosier"},{"date":"2021-12-26","word":"demo"},{"date":"2021-12-25","word":"ceaselessly"}]
```

This response example in pretty print:
```json
[
  {
    "date": "2021-12-31",
    "word": "raindrop"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-30",
    "word": "ceaselessly"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-29",
    "word": "foresail"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-28",
    "word": "haematopoietic"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-27",
    "word": "crosier"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-26",
    "word": "demo"
  },
  {
    "date": "2021-12-25",
    "word": "ceaselessly"
  }
]
```

Note: since the word of the day endpoint is infinite
pagination, and since there is one word for each date
in time, the response body provides no indication of
the total number of items, nor the "id" of the next
or previous page.
